[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: So
Service Workers are
powerful for offline
caching, but they're also
really good for giving you
instant loading performance
benefits when it comes
to repeat visits.
MATT GAUNT: Yup.
ADDY OSMANI: Right?
And you can achieve that
using an application shell
architecture.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
That's kind of the idea of--
it's kind of separating content
from the actual visual UI.
So in my head, it's kind
of like in the apps,
you always have the banner.
You've got the Navigation
drawer at the side,
you might have some other bits.
That could be common through,
like, 90% of your app.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
MATT GAUNT: You
always want it there.
ADDY OSMANI: So when we
talk about the shell,
we're talking about
the HTML, the CSS,
and the JavaScript that's
making up the bulk of your UI,
stuff that, you know, if you
cache that, you can still
just load up content
in the very middle
and save yourself having to
constantly reload that stuff,
right?
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, and it's super
nice when it comes to-- like,
let's say they're visiting
a page they've never been to
before.
If you know the layout's
always going to be the same,
you can still load that
while you go and get
the content in the background.
ADDY OSMANI: And
it just makes sure
that your user has really
good perceive performance.
So the first time
you upload, you're
going to have to render
the shell itself.
You'll cache that in
your Service Worker.
And you might show
like a toast, just
to let them know, hey, this
application now works offline.
And that means that when they
come back another time-- like,
let's say they're
in Airplane mode--
that shell will load up
really, really quickly.
And then it might
go to the network
to fetch the rest
of the content.
You can then cache that content
so that that entire view
is then available whenever
they try accessing it
without a network connection.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, exactly.
Spot on.
ADDY OSMANI: We've
got some performance
testing we've done with the
application shell model.
This is using WebPagetest.
So on first visit, we've
got a relatively fast time
to first meaningful paint.
MATT GAUNT: And this
is super important,
because I think there can be
scenarios where someone might
take advantage of Service Worker
to be like, ah, don't worry
about your first load.
Well, I'm just going to serve
up, like, megabytes of stuff
that I'm going to cache.
Afterwards, you'll
be super fast.
But that first load, if that
takes so long to the point
where the Service Worker
doesn't even get registered,
that's pointless.
And plus, for
other browsers that
don't support Service
Worker, you're
then kind of just
damaging yourself.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah, that's
going to make your users go
and cry in a corner.
MATT GAUNT: Exactly.
ADDY OSMANI: You
don't want that.
MATT GAUNT: So you still
want to be serving up just
that static render of your
site just so then it just loads
up as fast as humanly possible,
and then progressively
enhances Service Worker to
then use the app shell model.
ADDY OSMANI: And if you are
using the app shell model,
as you can see here, we've got
really good-- we've actually
slashed our load times for first
meaningful paints on repeat
visits.
Speaking of actually taking
a look at what impact
server-side rendering
has on this,
you don't have to use
Service Worker to actually
be able to get good gains.
If you're building with the
app shell model in mind,
with server-side
rendering in mind,
you will get a really good
first paint even in Safari
and on mobile Safari on iOS.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, all the
other browsers that just
don't have Service Worker.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
Now, if you're
wondering, OK, well,
should I be using
the application shell
model on all of my
applications, there
are going to be types of
apps-- like super simple apps,
this might be overkill.
But if you're building
something that's
a little bit more complex,
a little bit more dynamic,
this type of model
makes a ton of sense.
At Google, we're using
it for things like Inbox.
It's working really well there.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
I think it's one of
those things-- you end up
falling into the-- sitting
there and figuring out
whether it makes sense
for your site or not.
But I think it's a
good overall model that
works for a lot of
different scenarios.
ADDY OSMANI: There's a
whole ton behind this model
that it would be way too much
to explain in just one video.
But we wrote up a pretty
amazing article on this,
if we do say so ourselves.
MATT GAUNT: Well, you wrote
it up and I just read it.
ADDY OSMANI: You just added
your name to the end of it.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah,
that's how I roll.
ADDY OSMANI: Pretty much.
The impact.
That's worth checking out.
MATT GAUNT: That's the
format of this show, Addy.
ADDY OSMANI: It's a
mediocre article at best,
but it's got pretty graphics.
MATT GAUNT: Yes, it does.
ADDY OSMANI: People should
go check that out, learn more
about app shell.
MATT GAUNT: And then there's
also the Getting Started Guide
for your first [INAUDIBLE]
web app, where it actually
talks about the
application shell model,
how you can take
advantage of it,
as well as how it
applies to the demo app
that you can build in
this lovely code lab.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
And in that article,
we also link out
to tools that can help you get
started with the application
model like really quickly
that we're working on.
So check that out.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah,
build a weather app.
[MUSIC PLAYING]